Messages report 2 (#41)
SOMAS2021/SOMAS-Final-Report: 002_simulation_structure/002_simulation_structure.tex

Base agent contains the core information of an agent, such as an agent's HP and floor. Base agent also contains the \lstinline$hpDecay()$ function as well as a function to calculate an individual agent's utility. 
Custom agents are designed by each of the agent teams, where each one of them has a different strategy.

%%%%%%%%
%%%%%%%% Message Passing
%%%%%%%%
\section{Message Passing}\label{message_passing}
\subsection{Primitive Messaging}

> An important role of Team 1 was to design a mechanism for agents to talk amongst each other in the simulation that would allow automated communication. The first step in this process was to design a system which would allow an agent to pass along a minimum viable message to their neighbours. These were the goals of communication in the MVP:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important role of Team 1 was to design a mechanism for agents to talk amongst each other in the simulation. The first step in this process was to design a system which would allow an agent to pass along a minimum viable message to their neighbours. These were the goals of communication in the MVP:
```

Reviewer: I don't really think you need that part of the sentence

\begin{itemize}

>     \item Agents could only talk to their immediate neighbors ($\pm1$ floor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item Agents may only talk to their immediate neighbors ($\pm1$ floor).
```

    \item Agents should be given the ability to ignore communication.
    \item Multiple agents could be ``speaking'' in a given tick.
    \item One agent can send one message per tick.
    \item \textbf{It is entirely at an agent's discretion if/when/how they wish to react to a message as long as their behavior is not deceptive}

> As a team, Team 1 emphasized the last point. The infrastructure should not force any behavior onto the agent as long as the behavior was honest. The basic philosophy of the communication infrastructure was to dictate as little as possible about the agent's behavior while keeping the API readable and user-friendly. This meant providing basic override-able behaviors that were as unobtrusive as possible to team strategies. \newline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The infrastructure should not force any behaviour onto the agent as long as the behaviour is honest. The basic philosophy of the communication infrastructure was to dictate as little as possible about the agent's behavior while keeping the API readable and user-friendly. This meant providing basic override-able behaviours that were as unobtrusive as possible to team strategies. \newline
```

> The infrastructure should not force any behaviour onto an agent as long as the behaviour is honest. The basic philosophy of the communication infrastructure was to dictate as little as possible about the agent's behaviour while keeping the API readable and user-friendly. This usually meant providing basic override-able behaviours to be as unobtrusive as possible to team strategies. \newline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The infrastructure should not force any behaviour onto an agent as long as the behaviour is honest. The basic philosophy of the communication infrastructure was to dictate as little as possible about the agent's behaviour while keeping the API readable and user-friendly. This usually meant providing basic override-able behaviours to be as unobtrusive as possible to team strategies. \newline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: duplicated sentence

    \item An agent could be \textit{request} something from another agent. ``Please leave 10 food on the platform for me."
    \item An agent could be \textit{responding} to another agent's request. ``Yes." or ``No."
\end{enumerate}
These categories solidified into four basic messages - \texttt{Ask}, \texttt{State}, \texttt{Request}, and \texttt{Response}. \newline
In addition, \texttt{Ask} and \texttt{Request} are messages that expect a response. A \texttt{State} message could be a response to an \texttt{Ask} but also could be an unprompted announcement while \texttt{Response} must be responding to some pre-existing \texttt{Request}. \newline 
While Team 1 did not want to force agent teams into any behaviors, we wanted to make the API compatible with the expected etiquette of communication. This lead to the message categorization and pair-wise reply functionality summarized below.
\begin{center}
\begin{tabular}{p{3cm}p{3cm}p{5cm}p{3.5cm}}
 \hline
 \textbf{Message \newline Category} & \textbf{Reply \newline Category} & \textbf{Body Functions} & \textbf{Description} \\ [0.5ex] 
 \hline\hline

>  \texttt{AskMessage} & \texttt{StateMessage} &  \texttt{Reply}: Returns appropriate statement & Inquires something about a neighboring agent's state. \\

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 \texttt{AskMessage} & \texttt{StateMessage} &  \texttt{Reply}: Returns the appropriate statement & Inquires something about a neighboring agent's state. \\
```

 \hline
\end{tabular}
\end{center}
From these basic categories 11 specific messages were developed that specified what was being asked, stated, requested or responded to.
\begin{center}
\begin{longtable}{p{4cm}p{2.5cm}p{4cm}p{4cm}}
 \hline
 \textbf{Message Type} & \textbf{Category} & \textbf{Description} & \textbf{Reply Type} \\ [0.5ex] 
 \hline\hline
 \texttt{AskFoodTaken} & \texttt{AskMessage} & Asks how much food an agent has (already) taken
 & \texttt{StateFoodTaken} \\ 
 \hline
 \texttt{AskHP} & \texttt{AskMessage} & Asks how much HP an agent has & \texttt{StateHP} \\ 
  \hline
 \texttt{AskFoodOnPlatform} & \texttt{AskMessage} & Asks how much food is on the platform when it arrives at the (recipient) agent & \texttt{StateFoodOnPlatform} \\ 
 \hline
 \texttt{AskIntendedFoodIntake} & \texttt{AskMessage} & Asks how much food an agent is planning to take & \texttt{StateIntendedFoodIntake} \\ 
 \hline
 \texttt{StateFoodTaken} & \texttt{StateMessage} & States how much food an agent has taken &   \\
 \hline
 \texttt{StateHP} & \texttt{StateMessage} & States how much HP an agent has &   \\
 \hline

>  \texttt{StateFoodOnPlatform} & \texttt{StateMessage} & States how food is on the platform when it arrives to the agent &  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 \texttt{StateFoodOnPlatform} & \texttt{StateMessage} & States how much food is on the platform when it arrives to the agent &  
```

 \\
 \hline

>  \texttt{StateIntendedFoodIntake} & \texttt{StateMessage} & States how food the agent is planning to take &  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 \texttt{StateIntendedFoodIntake} & \texttt{StateMessage} & States how  much food the agent is planning to take &  
```

 \\
 \hline

>  \texttt{RequestLeaveFood} & \texttt{RequestMessage} & Requests that an agent (presumably above) you leaves a certain amount of food on the platform & \texttt{BoolResponse}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 \texttt{RequestLeaveFood} & \texttt{RequestMessage} & Requests that an agent (presumably above you) leaves a certain amount of food on the platform & \texttt{BoolResponse}
```

 \\
 \hline

>  \texttt{RequestTakeFood} & \texttt{RequestMessage} & Requests that an agent (presumably above) you takes a certain amount of food on the platform & \texttt{BoolResponse}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 \texttt{RequestTakeFood} & \texttt{RequestMessage} & Requests that an agent (presumably above you) takes a certain amount of food on the platform & \texttt{BoolResponse}
```

 \\
 \hline
 \texttt{BoolResponse} & \texttt{ResponseMessage} & Message affirming or rejecting a request &  
\end{longtable}
\end{center}

> The distinction between ``receiving" and ``reacting" becomes important. Because we wanted to ensure that \textit{receiving} any of these message types did not mean that the recipient had to \textit{react}, the ``reaction" was separated into an external function which the agent could optionally call after they extracted their message from the inbox. \newline

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The distinction between ``receiving" and ``reacting" becomes important. We wanted to ensure that \textit{receiving} any of these message types did not mean that the recipient had to \textit{react}. For that reason, the ``reaction" was separated into an external function which the agent could optionally call after they extracted their message from the inbox. \newline
```

> The design works such that if Alice on Floor 11 wanted to ask Floor 12 to leave 10 food on the platform for her:
> \begin{enumerate}
>     \item At Tick 0, Alice constructs a \texttt{RequestLeaveFoodMessage} with \texttt{Request} set to 10 addressed to Floor 12.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The design works such that if Alice on Floor 11 wanted to ask Floor 10 to leave 10 food on the platform for her:
\begin{enumerate}
    \item At Tick 0, Alice constructs a \texttt{RequestLeaveFoodMessage} with \texttt{Request} set to 10 addressed to Floor 10.
```

Tower is inverted, its all so confusing. But sending upwards is done to a lower valued floor

 \hline
 \texttt{RequestType} & The request agreement for the treaty, possible requests are:
 \begin{itemize}
    \item \textbf{\texttt{LeaveAmountFood}}: Requests a signed agent to leave a fixed amount of food.
    \item \textbf{\texttt{LeavePercentFood}}: Requests a signed agent to leave a percentage of food on the platform.
    \item \textbf{\texttt{Inform}}: Requests a signed agent to alert their neighbor if treaty conditions are met.
\end{itemize} \\ 
 \hline
 \texttt{RequestOp} & Includes all the mathematical operators $\geq, >, =, <, \leq$ \\ 
 \hline
 \texttt{RequestValue} & Value that the \texttt{RequestType} has to meet the \texttt{RequestOp} for. \\ 
 \hline
\end{tabular}
\end{center}
\vspace{\baselineskip}
The aforementioned treaty \textit{“Please leave 40 food on the platform if you are not in critical condition”} would be translated into \newline
\texttt{ConditionType = HP \newline
        ConditionOp = GT \newline
        ConditionValue = 20 //(where 20 is the critical threshold) \newline
        RequestType = LeaveAmountFood \newline
        RequestOp = EQ \newline
        RequestValue = 40 \newline}

> In addition to the language components the treaties included a \texttt{SignatureCount} which tracked an estimate of how many agents had signed the treaty thus far. This number was not an accurate, it only vaguely indicates whether or not a treaty is popular. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to the language components, the treaties included a \texttt{SignatureCount} which tracked an estimate of how many agents had signed the treaty thus far. This number is not an accurate estimation, it only vaguely indicates whether or not a treaty is popular. 
```

The introduction of treaties also necessitated the creation of one more message category as well as a message sub-type. 
\begin{center}
\begin{tabular}{p{3cm}p{3cm}p{5cm}p{3.5cm}}
 \hline
 \textbf{Message \newline Category} & \textbf{Reply \newline Category} & \textbf{Body Functions} & \textbf{Description} \\ [0.5ex] 
 \hline\hline
 \texttt{ProposalMessage} & \texttt{ResponseMessage} &  
 \texttt{Reply}: Returns \texttt{TreatyResponseMessage} \newline 
 \texttt{Treaty}: Returns the treaty that the proposal is carrying &
 Carries a treaty from proposer/propagator to recipient.\\
 \hline
\end{tabular}
\end{center}

> \texttt{TreatyResponse} sub-type of \texttt{ResponseMessage} which were response messages that contained the ID of the treaty it was responding to. \newline
> The treaties-relay-design and the inaccuracy of the signature count is illustrated if Alice, still on Floor 10, wanted to propose the treaty \textit{“Please leave 40 food on the platform if you are not in critical condition”} to her neighbours downstairs and upstairs it would work as follows:
> \begin{enumerate}
>     \item Tick 0: Alice constructs the treaty, embeds it within a \texttt{ProposeTreatyMessage} and sends it upward (as she can only send one message per tick). Alice's treaty begins with a \texttt{SignatureCount} of 1 (since she implicitly signed it by proposing).
>     \item Tick 1: Treaty arrives on the 11th Floor in Bob's (previously empty) inbox and he chooses to respond positively and signs. On Bob's local copy of the treaty, the \texttt{SignatureCount} has incremented to 2 but not on Alice's. Bob replies through \texttt{Reply} and sends the  \texttt{TreatyResponse} downstairs.
>     \item Tick 1: Meanwhile, Alice also sends the treaty downward to Floor 9.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
\texttt{TreatyResponse} sub-type of \texttt{ResponseMessage} which were response messages that contained the ID of the treaty it was responding to. \newline
The treaties-relay-design and the inaccuracy of the signature count is illustrated if Alice, still on Floor 10, wanted to propose the treaty \textit{“Please leave 40 food on the platform if you are not in critical condition”} to her neighbours downstairs and upstairs it would work as follows:
\begin{enumerate}
    \item Tick 0: Alice constructs the treaty, embeds it within a \texttt{ProposeTreatyMessage} and sends it upward (as she can only send one message per tick). Alice's treaty begins with a \texttt{SignatureCount} of 1 (since she implicitly signed it by proposing).
    \item Tick 1: Treaty arrives on the 9th Floor in Bob's (previously empty) inbox and he chooses to respond positively and signs. On Bob's local copy of the treaty, the \texttt{SignatureCount} has incremented to 2 but not on Alice's. Bob replies through \texttt{Reply} and sends the  \texttt{TreatyResponse} downstairs.
    \item Tick 1: Meanwhile, Alice also sends the treaty downward to Floor 11.
```

    \item Tick 2: Treaty arrives on the 9th Floor in Carol's (previously empty) inbox and she also chooses to respond positively. \newline
    Here, Carol's local copy of the treaty has a \texttt{SignatureCount} of 2 not 3 despite the fact she is the third person to sign.
    \item Tick 2: Meanwhile, Alice has received Bob's affirmation. Knowing that he signed it, she increments her copy of the treaty.
    \item Tick 3: Alice also receives Carol's affirmation, she increments her local \texttt{SignatureCount} to 4, making her the only person with access to the correct signature numbers.
    \item Tick \texttt{n}: In some future tick post-reshuffle where Alice, Bob and Carol are no longer neighbours, the three of them and whoever else signed copies of the treaty (if Carol or Bob further propogated the treaty) are bound to the agreement that if they are not in critical condition, they would leave 40 food)
\end{enumerate}

> Although we discussed several approaches for keeping an accurate state of the \texttt{SignatureCount}, they required too much communication overhead which could be detrimental to strategies since messages were capped at one per tick. Agent teams opposed the idea of removing the field altogether so an inaccurate but potentially useful \texttt{SignatureCount} was kept. \newline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although we discussed several approaches for keeping an accurate state of the \texttt{SignatureCount}, they required too much communication overhead which could be detrimental to strategies since message sending is capped at one per tick. Agent teams opposed the idea of removing the field altogether so an inaccurate but potentially useful \texttt{SignatureCount} was kept. \newline
```

> Because the honest run of the experiment required that no agent would break their treaties, by default agents would reject treaties. This default was expected to be overridden by any agent team who wanted to communicate with other agents so this introduced difficulties in how to ensure that treaties that had been signed were followed. There were suggestions for a technical solution however ultimately that was too restrictive for agent strategies as it would require Team 1 to somehow conditionally override agent behavior depending on if they had an active treaty or not which was technically difficult but also extremely limiting for the agents. Ultimately it was decided that the honesty would be maintained through thorough a combination of readable agent code and thorough PR (pull request) reviews from Team 1 as treaty-strategies were implemented. \newline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the honest run of the experiment requires that no agent breaks their treaties, the base agent rejects treaties by default. This default was expected to be overridden by any agent team who wanted to communicate with other agents, so this introduced difficulties in how to ensure that treaties that had been signed were followed. There were suggestions for a technical solution however ultimately that was too restrictive for agent strategies as it would require Team 1 to somehow conditionally override agent behaviour depending on if they had an active treaty or not. Ultimately it was decided that the honesty would be maintained through a combination of readable agent code and thorough code reviews from Team 1 as treaty strategies were implemented. \newline
```

With the advent of treaties and the possibility of building relationships that outlived a reshuffle, it was time to extend communications beyond immediate neighbors to possibly tower-wide.

\subsection{Message Propagation}

> Multi-floor communication was a long-awaited feature among agent teams so there had already been many conversations about how best to achieve this. There were two main approaches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Multi-floor communication was a long-awaited feature among agent teams so there had already been many conversations about how best to achieve this. There were two main approaches:
```

\begin{enumerate}

>     \item \textbf{Shouting}: An agent could shout up or down a specified number of floors and every agent the in-between floors could also hear.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    \item \textbf{Shouting}: An agent could shout up or down a specified number of floors and every agent on floors in between would also hear the message.
```

>     \item \textbf{Directed Shouting}: An agent could shout in such a way that only the agent on the targeted floor would hear but none of the agents in the in-between floors could.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    \item \textbf{Propagating}: An agent could only speak to its immediate neighbour but they could instruct their neighbour to pass the message on to the target floor.
\end{enumerate}

> Option 2 was eliminated quickly for its unreasonable premise, it was not clear conceptually how an agent could yell only to one recipient. \newline

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Option 2 was eliminated quickly due to its unreasonable premise, it was not clear conceptually how an agent could yell only to one recipient. \newline
```

> Option 2 was eliminated quickly for its unreasonable premise, it was not clear conceptually how an agent could yell only to one recipient. \newline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Option 1 required some limit on the number of floors you could yell across. Agent teams also suggested that shouting should not be a free action and should ``cost" HP when engaged in often. Although interesting, it introduced unnecessary complexity and was eliminated. \newline

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Option 1 required some limit on the number of floors you could yell across. Agent teams also suggested that shouting should not be a free action and should ``cost" HP when engaged in often. Although interesting, it introduced unnecessary complexity and was discarded. \newline
```

> Option 3 also had some interesting implications. There were multiple possibilities in how the in-between agents would behave:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Option 2 also had some interesting implications. There were multiple possibilities in how the in-between agents would behave:
```
